what a world we live in when a nation
filled with millionaires and
billionaires are completely surrounded
with the vast majority of people unable
to make ends meet that's a complete
evisceration of the middle class and
it's not coming back you came here for
the truth today I want to talk about
this displacement of the middle class in
America let's begin 78% a full-time
worker said that they live paycheck to
paycheck and that's up from 75% last
year think about this you have this
sample and within that the majority of
people are unable to make ends meet
they're underwater they're losing it and
71% of all US workers said that they are
now in debt that's up from 16 percent a
year ago these people will continue to
be in a worse situation that's how that
works it compounds some people might
make their way out but ultimately people
have to dig themselves deeper down in an
effort to get back up of course it
doesn't work like that
46 percent so that their debt is
manageable and I would interject for a
moment the national debt apparently is
manageable as well 56% said that they
were in over their heads and I do
believe that that is accurate look
people are getting themselves involved
in all of the wrong things they have
spent all of their money and in fact
right here
56% also saved $100 or less each month
all right the lack of savings is a very
big problem the fact that people are not
educated about where their MA
should be is another problem we don't
learn it in school nobody ever teaches
the money GPS in school unfortunately
but the people basically spend their
money frivolously but I would also say
that individuals are more indebted
because of the school debt that they
have student debt that's one problem
they come out of school they have a lot
of debt they have to pay it back what do
they do they get a job it's not paying
as well as it should have if they can
get a job and of course they take on two
or three jobs if they can get them there
not quality jobs but something has to
pay the bills and of course all of this
leads to more and more hardship people
are literally unable to make ends meet
that should be considered under the
poverty line but the way they skew this
system doesn't appear that way let's
take a look at the next article it's a
survey here highlighting a troubling
trend in household finances more than
eight years since the end of the
recession the share of Americans who are
living on the financial edge is growing
and some may want to blame the America
spendthrift ways which is true no doubt
this individual pointed to two trends
that continue to put financial stress on
households and something that I talked
about and financial wages and the rising
cost of everything from education to
consumer goods that is a very serious
issue people aren't being paid what they
need to to be able to afford they think
the things that they need of course
they're buying iPhones and they're
buying iPads and whatever but they're
not making the amount of money that they
would have been if this was 10 20 years
ago relative to what things cost and
what's happening you're seeing a chasm
forming in between these two things it's
a very real threat to people because
they're underwater the debt is getting
worse and ultimately must compound
that's the way it works you can't get
out of it the majority of people simply
can't get out of it and of course he
talks about basically how it's trending
across the board seventy five percent
once again
a year ago seventy five percent and now
seventy eight percent living paycheck to
paycheck with the BLS reporting about a
hundred twenty two million full-time
workers the poll suggests that ninety
five million could be living paycheck to
paycheck now I just want to say that
that was just a sample of course maybe
the numbers is lower for sure wouldn't
wouldn't surprise me but just think
about that however you wanna you know
whatever number you want to use even
we'll say 50 million okay fifty million
people is a very serious number and it
just goes to show how well they can
cover things up they do a great job at
that I give him that I'm just gonna
touch on this very very briefly because
I actually want to do a video about this
just on my opinion about the Powerball
lottery came out seven hundred and fifty
eight point seven million dollars one
winner amazing
this person has won an extremely large
amount of money that even after taxes
they're going to win a lot of money now
what they said was basically this person
came out publicly instead of creating I
think it was a trust or something like
that what they said in here to basically
block their
tea from appearing to the public because
the winners are public and the person
came public now they have to deal with
all of the basically extra scrutiny
they're gonna be asked to pull their
money this way in that way and protect
them on here get a lawyer get a
accountant get a this in that wealth
planner and what they actually said was
in this article this person needs to
have their money managed they can't do
it on their own
so they need to manage their money and
that's something that I tell people the
exact opposite manage your own money
take care of yourself but just get that
education first that was basically the
reason I wrote my books in particular my
first book but also the second book is
basically to say you don't need them we
can do this on our own
so I'll do another video about that I
just wanted to touch on that very
quickly that's a lot of money Amazon
said it's going to cut prices on a range
of popular goods and it has it complete
the acquisition of Whole Foods so
basically literally as soon as it goes
through officially they're going to cut
prices right away not on everything
across the board but they said they're
going to cut it on some very typical
things that people buy like bananas and
everything else so it's good news for
the shoppers there because Whole Foods
is definitely it has that reputation of
whole paycheck so it's a good thing
there I think that as a result we'll see
continued declines in a lot of these
stores where their products are being
sold from the whole food shelf being
sold at Amazon and also the Amazon
products like they have the Amazon
lockers there and such which we'll be
moving into the Whole Foods stores as
well so basically the two businesses are
merging to some degree and they've only
haven't even begun yet
and I think this is big bad bad news for
a lot of other retailers so this
amazon is becoming a giant an absolute
giant and it will continue i think that
it's going to displace a lot of other
businesses forget about the mom-and-pop
shops those are gone and i just wanted
to close off with this very quickly the
US Fed Funds rate versus the US
financial conditions index so the
conditions index is the Green Line and
you can see that since 2015 has headed
downward as the federal funds rate
good old Fed has been rising slowly
steadily rising if it continues I think
things will get a lot worse but at the
same time I am a proponent of higher
interest rates I want that to happen
I want the economy to come down for a
while I want the stock market to come
down for a while I want all of these
assets to start declining even if that
means that there is a recession and
people have to lose their jobs and
everything else that is bad in a way but
we need to restore sanity this is just
it's blowing bubbles that are going to
hurt people a lot worse the bigger the
bubble gets the worse and dramatic the
fall will be it's very bad so if we just
do it get it over with now things will
be much better in the end but of course
that's not gonna happen
and then we'll see what happens in the
medium term that's all for this video if
you found it informative please give me
a thumbs up and last but not least if
you found the video informative I know
you'll find my books the money GPS and
my new release global economic collapse
even more informative so you can flip
through these books at Amazon they have
basically look inside feature it's going
to allow you to flip through the pages
of these books see if you like them
take care